PANIC(9)                   Kernel Developer's Manual                  PANIC(9)

NAME
     panic – bring down system on fatal error

SYNOPSIS
     #include <sys/types.h>
     #include <sys/systm.h>

     extern char *panicstr;

     void
     panic(const char *fmt, ...);

     void
     vpanic(const char *fmt, va_list ap);

     KERNEL_PANICKED();

DESCRIPTION
     The panic() and vpanic() functions terminate the running system.  The
     message fmt is a printf(3) style format string.  The message is printed
     to the console and panicstr is set pointing to the address of the message
     text.  This can be retrieved from a core dump at a later time.

     Upon entering the panic() function the panicking thread disables
     interrupts and calls critical_enter(9).  This prevents the thread from
     being preempted or interrupted while the system is still in a running
     state.  Next, it will instruct the other CPUs in the system to stop.
     This synchronizes with other threads to prevent concurrent panic
     conditions from interfering with one another.  In the unlikely event of
     concurrent panics, only one panicking thread will proceed.

     Control will be passed to the kernel debugger via kdb_enter().  This is
     conditional on a debugger being installed and enabled by the
     debugger_on_panic variable; see ddb(4) and gdb(4).  The debugger may
     initiate a system reset, or it may eventually return.

     Finally, kern_reboot(9) is called to restart the system, and a kernel
     dump will be requested.  If panic() is called recursively (from the disk
     sync routines, for example), kern_reboot() will be instructed not to sync
     the disks.

     The vpanic() function implements the main body of panic().  It is
     suitable to be called by functions which perform their own variable-
     length argument processing.  In all other cases, panic() is preferred.

     The KERNEL_PANICKED() macro is the preferred way to determine if the
     system has panicked.  It returns a boolean value.  Most often this is
     used to avoid taking an action that cannot possibly succeed in a panic
     context.

EXECUTION CONTEXT
     Once the panic has been initiated, code executing in a panic context is
     subject to the following restrictions:

     •   Single-threaded execution.  The scheduler is disabled, and other CPUs
         are stopped/forced idle.  Functions that manipulate the scheduler
         state must be avoided.  This includes, but is not limited to,
         wakeup(9) and sleepqueue(9) functions.

     •   Interrupts are disabled.  Device I/O (e.g. to the console) must be
         achieved with polling.

     •   Dynamic memory allocation cannot be relied on, and must be avoided.

     •   Lock acquisition/release will be ignored, meaning these operations
         will appear to succeed.

     •   Sleeping on a resource is not strictly prohibited, but will result in
         an immediate return from the sleep function.  Time-based sleeps such
         as pause(9) may be performed as a busy-wait.

RETURN VALUES
     The panic() and vpanic() functions do not return.

SEE ALSO
     printf(3), ddb(4), gdb(4), KASSERT(9), kern_reboot(9)

macOS 26.5                      March 17, 2023                      macOS 26.5
