UNAME(1)                    General Commands Manual                   UNAME(1)

NAME
     uname – display information about the system

SYNOPSIS
     uname [-abiKmnoprsUv]

DESCRIPTION
     The uname command writes the name of the operating system implementation
     to standard output.  When options are specified, strings representing one
     or more system characteristics are written to standard output.

     The options are as follows:

     -a      Behave as though the options -m, -n, -r, -s, and -v were
             specified.

     -b      Write the kernel's linker-generated build-id to standard output.

     -i      Write the kernel ident to standard output.

     -K      Write the FreeBSD version of the kernel.

     -m      Write the type of the current hardware platform to standard
             output.  (make(1) uses it to set the MACHINE variable.)

     -n      Write the name of the system to standard output.

     -o      This is a synonym for the -s option, for compatibility with other
             systems.

     -p      Write the type of the machine processor architecture to standard
             output.  (make(1) uses it to set the MACHINE_ARCH variable.)

     -r      Write the current release level of the kernel to standard output.
             freebsd-version(1) can be used to print the release level of the
             userland.

     -s      Write the name of the operating system implementation to standard
             output.

     -U      Write the FreeBSD version of the user environment.

     -v      Write the version level of this release of the operating system
             to standard output.

     If the -a flag is specified, or multiple flags are specified, all output
     is written on a single line, separated by spaces.

     The -K and -U flags are intended to be used for fine grain
     differentiation of incremental FreeBSD development and user visible
     changes.  Note that when both of these two options are specified,
     regardless of their order, the kernel version would be printed first,
     followed by the user environment version.

ENVIRONMENT
     An environment variable composed of the string UNAME_ followed by any
     flag to the uname utility (except for -a) will allow the corresponding
     data to be set to the contents of the environment variable.  See uname(3)
     for more information.

EXIT STATUS
     The uname utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

EXAMPLES
     The hardware platform (-m) can be different from the machine's processor
     architecture (-p), e.g., on 64-bit PowerPC, -m would return powerpc and
     -p would return powerpc64.

SEE ALSO
     freebsd-version(1), feature_present(3), getosreldate(3), sysctl(3),
     uname(3), sysctl(8)

STANDARDS
     The uname command is expected to conform to the IEEE Std 1003.2
     (“POSIX.2”) specification.

HISTORY
     The uname command appeared in PWB UNIX 1.0, however 4.4BSD was the first
     Berkeley release with the uname command.

     The -K and -U extension flags appeared in FreeBSD 10.0.  The -b extension
     flag appeared in FreeBSD 13.0.

macOS 26.5                    September 14, 2022                    macOS 26.5
