DMESG(8)                    System Manager's Manual                   DMESG(8)

NAME
     dmesg – display the system message buffer

SYNOPSIS
     dmesg [-ac] [-M core [-N system]]

DESCRIPTION
     The dmesg utility displays the contents of the system message buffer.  If
     the -M option is not specified, the buffer is read from the currently
     running kernel via the sysctl(3) interface.  Otherwise, the buffer is
     read from the specified core file, using the name list from the specified
     kernel image (or from the default image).

     The options are as follows:

     -a      Show all data in the message buffer.  This includes any syslog
             records and /dev/console output.

     -c      Clear the kernel buffer after printing.

     -M      Extract values associated with the name list from the specified
             core.

     -N      If -M is also specified, extract the name list from the specified
             system instead of the default, which is the kernel image the
             system has booted from.

SYSCTL VARIABLES
     The following sysctl(8) variables control how the kernel timestamps
     entries in the message buffer: The default value is shown next to each
     variable.

     kern.msgbuf_show_timestamp: 0
             If set to 0, no timetamps are added.  If set to 1, then a
             1-second granularity timestamp will be added to most lines in the
             message buffer.  If set to 2, then a microsecond granularity
             timestamp will be added.  This may also be set as a boot
             loader(8) tunable.  The timestamps are placed at the start of
             most lines that the kernel generates.  Some multi-line messages
             will have only the first line tagged with a timestamp.

FILES
     /var/run/dmesg.boot      usually a snapshot of the buffer contents taken
                              soon after file systems are mounted at startup
                              time

SEE ALSO
     sysctl(3), syslogd(8)

HISTORY
     The dmesg utility appeared in 3BSD.

FreeBSD 14.2-RELEASE-p4           May 7, 2022          FreeBSD 14.2-RELEASE-p4
