MOUNT(8)                    System Manager's Manual                   MOUNT(8)

NAME
     mount – mount file systems

SYNOPSIS
     mount [--libxo] [-adflpruvw] [-F fstab] [-o options]
           [-t [no]type[,type ...]]
     mount [--libxo] [-dfpruvw] special | node
     mount [--libxo] [-dfpruvw] [-o options] [-t [no]type[,type ...]]
           special node

DESCRIPTION
     The mount utility calls the nmount(2) system call to prepare and graft a
     special device or the remote node (rhost:path) on to the file system tree
     at the point node.  If either special or node are not provided, the
     appropriate information is taken from the fstab(5) file.

     The system maintains a list of currently mounted file systems.  If no
     arguments are given to mount, this list is printed.

     The options are as follows:

     --libxo
             Generate output via libxo(3) in a selection of different human
             and machine readable formats.  See xo_parse_args(3) for details
             on command line arguments.

     -a      All the file systems described in fstab(5) are mounted.
             Exceptions are those marked as “noauto”, those marked as “late”
             (unless the -l option was specified), those excluded by the -t
             flag (see below), or if they are already mounted (except the root
             file system which is always remounted to preserve traditional
             single user mode behavior).

     -d      Causes everything to be done except for the actual system call.
             This option is useful in conjunction with the -v flag to
             determine what the mount command is trying to do.

     -F fstab
             Specify the fstab file to use.

     -f      Forces the revocation of write access when trying to downgrade a
             file system mount status from read-write to read-only.  Also
             forces the R/W mount of an unclean file system (dangerous; use
             with caution).

     -L      When used in conjunction with the -a option, mount only those
             file systems which are marked as “late”.

     -l      When used in conjunction with the -a option, also mount those
             file systems which are marked as “late”.

     -n      For compatibility with some other implementations, this flag is
             currently a no-op.

     -o      Options are specified with a -o flag followed by a comma
             separated string of options.  In case of conflicting options
             being specified, the rightmost option takes effect.  The
             following options are available:

             acls    Enable POSIX.1e Access Control Lists, or ACLs, which can
                     be customized via the setfacl(1) and getfacl(1) commands.
                     This flag is mutually exclusive with nfsv4acls flag.

             async   All I/O to the file system should be done asynchronously.
                     This is a dangerous flag to set, since it does not
                     guarantee that the file system structure on the disk will
                     remain consistent.  For this reason, the async flag
                     should be used sparingly, and only when some data
                     recovery mechanism is present.

             atime   Update the file access time when reading from a file.
                     This is the default.

             automounted
                     This flag indicates that the file system was mounted by
                     automountd(8).  Automounted file systems are
                     automatically unmounted by autounmountd(8).

             autoro  Mount the file system read-write.  If that fails with an
                     error that suggests that the media could be read-only,
                     then automatically try to mount the file system read-
                     only.

             current
                     When used with the -u flag, this is the same as
                     specifying the options currently in effect for the
                     mounted file system.

             emptydir
                     Require that the mount point directory be empty.

             force   The same as -f; forces the revocation of write access
                     when trying to downgrade a file system mount status from
                     read-write to read-only.  Also forces the R/W mount of an
                     unclean file system (dangerous; use with caution).

             fstab   When used with the -u flag, this is the same as
                     specifying all the options listed in the fstab(5) file
                     for the file system.

             late    This file system should be skipped when mount is run with
                     the -a flag but without the -l flag.

             mountprog=⟨program⟩
                     Force mount to use the specified program to mount the
                     file system, instead of calling nmount(2) directly.  For
                     example:

                     mount -t foofs -o mountprog=/mydir/fooprog /dev/cd0 /mnt

             multilabel
                     Enable multi-label Mandatory Access Control, or MAC, on
                     the specified file system.  If the file system supports
                     multilabel operation, individual labels will be
                     maintained for each object in the file system, rather
                     than using a single label for all objects.  An
                     alternative to the -l flag in tunefs(8).  See mac(4) for
                     more information, which cause the multilabel mount flag
                     to be set automatically at mount-time.

             nfsv4acls
                     Enable NFSv4 ACLs, which can be customized via the
                     setfacl(1) and getfacl(1) commands.  This flag is
                     mutually exclusive with acls flag.

             noasync
                     Metadata I/O should be done synchronously, while data I/O
                     should be done asynchronously.  This is the default.

             noatime
                     Do not update the file access time when reading from a
                     file.  This option is useful on file systems where there
                     are large numbers of files and performance is more
                     critical than updating the file access time (which is
                     rarely ever important).  This option is currently only
                     supported on local file systems.

             noauto  This file system should be skipped when mount is run with
                     the -a flag.

             noclusterr
                     Disable read clustering.

             noclusterw
                     Disable write clustering.

             nocover
                     Do not mount if the requested mount point is already the
                     root of a mount point.

             noexec  Do not allow execution of any binaries on the mounted
                     file system.  This option is useful for a server that has
                     file systems containing binaries for architectures other
                     than its own.  Note: This option was not designed as a
                     security feature and no guarantee is made that it will
                     prevent malicious code execution; for example, it is
                     still possible to execute scripts which reside on a
                     noexec mounted partition.

             nosuid  Do not allow set-user-identifier or set-group-identifier
                     bits to take effect.  Note: this option is worthless if a
                     public available suid or sgid wrapper is installed on
                     your system.  It is set automatically when the user does
                     not have super-user privileges.

             nosymfollow
                     Do not follow symlinks on the mounted file system.

             ro      The same as -r; mount the file system read-only (even the
                     super-user may not write it).

             snapshot
                     Take a snapshot of the specified filesystem.  When this
                     option is used, all other options are ignored.  The -u
                     flag is required with this option.

                     Snapshot files must be created in the file system that is
                     being snapshotted.  You may create up to 20 snapshots per
                     file system.  Active snapshots are recorded in the
                     superblock, so they persist across unmount and remount
                     operations and across system reboots.  When you are done
                     with a snapshot, it can be removed with the rm(1)
                     command.  Snapshots may be removed in any order, however
                     you may not get back all the space contained in the
                     snapshot as another snapshot may claim some of the blocks
                     that it is releasing.  Note that the schg flag is set on
                     snapshots to ensure that not even the root user can write
                     to them.  The unlink command makes an exception for
                     snapshot files in that it allows them to be removed even
                     though they have the schg flag set, so it is not
                     necessary to clear the schg flag before removing a
                     snapshot file.

                     Once you have taken a snapshot, there are three
                     interesting things that you can do with it:

                     1.   Run fsck(8) on the snapshot file.  Assuming that the
                          file system was clean when it was mounted, you
                          should always get a clean (and unchanging) result
                          from running fsck on the snapshot.  This is
                          essentially what the background fsck process does.

                     2.   Run dump(8) on the snapshot.  You will get a dump
                          that is consistent with the file system as of the
                          timestamp of the snapshot.

                     3.   Mount the snapshot as a frozen image of the file
                          system.  To mount the snapshot /var/snapshot/snap1:

                          mdconfig -a -t vnode -f /var/snapshot/snap1 -u 4
                          mount -r /dev/md4 /mnt

                          You can now cruise around your frozen /var file
                          system at /mnt.  Everything will be in the same
                          state that it was at the time the snapshot was
                          taken.  The one exception is that any earlier
                          snapshots will appear as zero length files.  When
                          you are done with the mounted snapshot:

                          umount /mnt
                          mdconfig -d -u 4

             suiddir
                     A directory on the mounted file system will respond to
                     the SUID bit being set, by setting the owner of any new
                     files to be the same as the owner of the directory.  New
                     directories will inherit the bit from their parents.
                     Execute bits are removed from the file, and it will not
                     be given to root.

                     This feature is designed for use on fileservers serving
                     PC users via ftp, SAMBA, or netatalk.  It provides
                     security holes for shell users and as such should not be
                     used on shell machines, especially on home directories.
                     This option requires the SUIDDIR option in the kernel to
                     work.  Only UFS file systems support this option.  See
                     chmod(2) for more information.

             sync    All I/O to the file system should be done synchronously.

             update  The same as -u; indicate that the status of an already
                     mounted file system should be changed.

             union   Causes the namespace at the mount point to appear as the
                     union of the mounted file system root and the existing
                     directory.  Lookups will be done in the mounted file
                     system first.  If those operations fail due to a non-
                     existent file the underlying directory is then accessed.
                     All creates are done in the mounted file system.

             untrusted
                     The file system is untrusted and the kernel should use
                     more extensive checks on the file-system's metadata
                     before using it.  This option is intended to be used when
                     mounting file systems from untrusted media such as USB
                     memory sticks or other externally-provided media.

             Any additional options specific to a file system type that is not
             one of the internally known types (see the -t option) may be
             passed as a comma separated list; these options are distinguished
             by a leading “-” (dash).  For example, the mount command:

                   mount -t cd9660 -o -e /dev/cd0 /cdrom

             causes mount to execute the equivalent of:

                   /sbin/mount_cd9660 -e /dev/cd0 /cdrom

             Options that take a value are specified using the -option=value
             syntax:

                   mount -t msdosfs -o -u=fred,-g=wheel /dev/da0s1 /mnt

             is equivalent to

                   /sbin/mount_msdosfs -u fred -g wheel /dev/da0s1 /mnt

             Additional options specific to file system types which are not
             internally known (see the description of the -t option below) may
             be described in the manual pages for the associated
             /sbin/mount_XXX utilities.

     -p      Print mount information in fstab(5) format.  Implies also the -v
             option.

     -r      The file system is to be mounted read-only.  Mount the file
             system read-only (even the super-user may not write it).  The
             same as the ro argument to the -o option.

     -t [no]type[,type ...]
             The argument following the -t is used to indicate the file system
             type.  The type ufs is the default.  The -t option can be used to
             indicate that the actions should only be taken on file systems of
             the specified type.  More than one type may be specified in a
             comma separated list.  The list of file system types can be
             prefixed with no to specify the file system types for which
             action should not be taken.  For example, the mount command:

                   mount -a -t nonfs,nullfs

             mounts all file systems except those of type NFS and NULLFS.

             The default behavior of mount is to pass the -t option directly
             to the nmount(2) system call in the fstype option.

             However, for the following file system types: cd9660, mfs,
             msdosfs, nfs, nullfs, smbfs, udf, and unionfs mount will not call
             nmount(2) directly and will instead attempt to execute a program
             in /sbin/mount_type where type is replaced by the file system
             type name.  For example, nfs file systems are mounted by the
             program /sbin/mount_nfs.

             Most file systems will be dynamically loaded by the kernel if not
             already present, and if the kernel module is available.

     -u      The -u flag indicates that the status of an already mounted file
             system should be changed.  Any of the options discussed above
             (the -o option) may be changed; also a file system can be changed
             from read-only to read-write or vice versa.  An attempt to change
             from read-write to read-only will fail if any files on the file
             system are currently open for writing unless the -f flag is also
             specified.  The set of options is determined by applying the
             options specified in the argument to -o and finally applying the
             -r or -w option.

     -v      Verbose mode.  If the -v is used alone, show all file systems,
             including those that were mounted with the MNT_IGNORE flag and
             show additional information about each file system (including
             fsid when run by root).

     -w      The file system object is to be read and write.

ENVIRONMENT
     PATH_FSTAB      If the environment variable PATH_FSTAB is set, all
                     operations are performed against the specified file.
                     PATH_FSTAB will not be honored if the process environment
                     or memory address space is considered “tainted”.  (See
                     issetugid(2) for more information.)

FILES
     /etc/fstab  file system table

DIAGNOSTICS
     Various, most of them are self-explanatory.

           XXXXX file system is not available

     The kernel does not support the respective file system type.  Note that
     support for a particular file system might be provided either on a static
     (kernel compile-time), or dynamic basis (loaded as a kernel module by
     kldload(8)).

SEE ALSO
     getfacl(1), setfacl(1), nmount(2), acl(3), libxo(3), xo_parse_args(3),
     mac(4), cd9660(5), devfs(5), ext2fs(5), fstab(5), procfs(5), tarfs(5),
     tmpfs(5), automount(8), fstyp(8), kldload(8), mount_cd9660(8),
     mount_msdosfs(8), mount_nfs(8), mount_nullfs(8), mount_smbfs(8),
     mount_udf(8), mount_unionfs(8), umount(8), zfs(8), zpool(8)

HISTORY
     A mount utility appeared in Version 1 AT&T UNIX.

CAVEATS
     After a successful mount, the permissions on the original mount point
     determine if .. is accessible from the mounted file system.  The minimum
     permissions for the mount point for traversal across the mount point in
     both directions to be possible for all users is 0111 (execute for all).

     Use of the mount is preferred over the use of the file system specific
     mount_XXX commands.  In particular, mountd(8) gets a SIGHUP signal (that
     causes an update of the export list) only when the file system is mounted
     via mount.

BUGS
     It is possible for a corrupted file system to cause a crash.

FreeBSD 14.2-RELEASE-p4        January 24, 2024        FreeBSD 14.2-RELEASE-p4
