DDB(4)                       Device Drivers Manual                      DDB(4)

NAME
     ddb – interactive kernel debugger

SYNOPSIS
     In order to enable kernel debugging facilities include:

           options KDB
           options DDB

     To prevent activation of the debugger on kernel panic(9):

           options KDB_UNATTENDED

     In order to print a stack trace of the current thread on the console for
     a panic:

           options KDB_TRACE

     To print the numerical value of symbols in addition to the symbolic
     representation, define:

           options DDB_NUMSYM

     To enable the gdb(4) backend, so that remote debugging with kgdb(1)
     (ports/devel/gdb) is possible, include:

           options GDB

DESCRIPTION
     The ddb kernel debugger is an interactive debugger with a syntax inspired
     by gdb(1) (ports/devel/gdb).  If linked into the running kernel, it can
     be invoked locally with the ‘debug’ keymap(5) action, usually mapped to
     Ctrl+Alt+Esc, or by setting the debug.kdb.enter sysctl to 1.  The
     debugger is also invoked on kernel panic(9) if the
     debug.debugger_on_panic sysctl(8) MIB variable is set non-zero, which is
     the default unless the KDB_UNATTENDED option is specified.  Similarly, if
     the debug.debugger_on_recursive_panic variable is set to 1, then the
     debugger will be invoked on a recursive kernel panic.  This variable has
     a default value of 0, and has no effect if debug.debugger_on_panic is
     already set non-zero.

     The current location is called dot.  The dot is displayed with a
     hexadecimal format at a prompt.  The commands examine and write update
     dot to the address of the last line examined or the last location
     modified, and set next to the address of the next location to be examined
     or changed.  Other commands do not change dot, and set next to be the
     same as dot.

     The general command syntax is: command[/modifier] [addr][,count]

     A blank line repeats the previous command from the address next with
     count 1 and no modifiers.  Specifying addr sets dot to the address.
     Omitting addr uses dot.  A missing count is taken to be 1 for printing
     commands or infinity for stack traces.  A count of -1 is equivalent to a
     missing count.  Options that are supplied but not supported by the given
     command are usually ignored.

     The ddb debugger has a pager feature (like the more(1) command) for the
     output.  If an output line exceeds the number set in the lines variable,
     it displays “--More--” and waits for a response.  The valid responses for
     it are:

     SPC      one more page
     RET      one more line
     q        abort the current command, and return to the command input mode

     Finally, ddb provides a small (currently 10 items) command history, and
     offers simple emacs-style command line editing capabilities.  In addition
     to the emacs control keys, the usual ANSI arrow keys may be used to
     browse through the history buffer, and move the cursor within the current
     line.

COMMANDS
   COMMON DEBUGGER COMMANDS
     help    Print a short summary of the available commands and command
             abbreviations.

     examine[/AISabcdghilmorsuxz ...] [addr][,count]
     x[/AISabcdghilmorsuxz ...] [addr][,count]
             Display the addressed locations according to the formats in the
             modifier.  Multiple modifier formats display multiple locations.
             If no format is specified, the last format specified for this
             command is used.

             The format characters are:
             b       look at by bytes (8 bits)
             h       look at by half words (16 bits)
             l       look at by long words (32 bits)
             g       look at by quad words (64 bits)
             a       print the location being displayed
             A       print the location with a line number if possible
             x       display in unsigned hex
             z       display in signed hex
             o       display in unsigned octal
             d       display in signed decimal
             u       display in unsigned decimal
             r       display in current radix, signed
             c       display low 8 bits as a character.  Non-printing
                     characters are displayed as an octal escape code (e.g.,
                     ‘\000’).
             s       display the null-terminated string at the location.  Non-
                     printing characters are displayed as octal escapes.
             m       display in unsigned hex with character dump at the end of
                     each line.  The location is also displayed in hex at the
                     beginning of each line.
             i       display as a disassembled instruction
             I       display as a disassembled instruction with possible
                     alternate formats depending on the machine.  On i386,
                     this selects the alternate format for the instruction
                     decoding (16 bits in a 32-bit code segment and vice
                     versa).
             S       display a symbol name for the pointer stored at the
                     address

     xf      Examine forward: execute an examine command with the last
             specified parameters to it except that the next address displayed
             by it is used as the start address.

     xb      Examine backward: execute an examine command with the last
             specified parameters to it except that the last start address
             subtracted by the size displayed by it is used as the start
             address.

     print[/acdoruxz]
     p[/acdoruxz]
             Print addrs according to the modifier character (as described
             above for examine).  Valid formats are: a, x, z, o, d, u, r, and
             c.  If no modifier is specified, the last one specified to it is
             used.  The argument addr can be a string, in which case it is
             printed as it is.  For example:

                   print/x "eax = " $eax "\necx = " $ecx "\n"

             will print like:

                   eax = xxxxxx
                   ecx = yyyyyy

     write[/bhl] addr expr1 [expr2 ...]
     w[/bhl] addr expr1 [expr2 ...]
             Write the expressions specified after addr on the command line at
             succeeding locations starting with addr.  The write unit size can
             be specified in the modifier with a letter b (byte), h (half
             word) or l (long word) respectively.  If omitted, long word is
             assumed.

             Warning: since there is no delimiter between expressions, strange
             things may happen.  It is best to enclose each expression in
             parentheses.

     set $variable [=] expr
             Set the named variable or register with the value of expr.  Valid
             variable names are described below.

     break[/u] [addr][,count]
     b[/u] [addr][,count]
             Set a break point at addr.  If count is supplied, the continue
             command will not stop at this break point on the first count - 1
             times that it is hit.  If the break point is set, a break point
             number is printed with ‘#’.  This number can be used in deleting
             the break point or adding conditions to it.

             If the u modifier is specified, this command sets a break point
             in user address space.  Without the u option, the address is
             considered to be in the kernel space, and a wrong space address
             is rejected with an error message.  This modifier can be used
             only if it is supported by machine dependent routines.

             Warning: If a user text is shadowed by a normal user space
             debugger, user space break points may not work correctly.
             Setting a break point at the low-level code paths may also cause
             strange behavior.

     delete [addr]
     d [addr]
     delete #number
     d #number
             Delete the specified break point.  The break point can be
             specified by a break point number with ‘#’, or by using the same
             addr specified in the original break command, or by omitting addr
             to get the default address of dot.

     halt    Halt the system.

     watch [addr][,size]
             Set a watchpoint for a region.  Execution stops when an attempt
             to modify the region occurs.  The size argument defaults to 4.
             If you specify a wrong space address, the request is rejected
             with an error message.

             Warning: Attempts to watch wired kernel memory may cause
             unrecoverable error in some systems such as i386.  Watchpoints on
             user addresses work best.

     hwatch [addr][,size]
             Set a hardware watchpoint for a region if supported by the
             architecture.  Execution stops when an attempt to modify the
             region occurs.  The size argument defaults to 4.

             Warning: The hardware debug facilities do not have a concept of
             separate address spaces like the watch command does.  Use hwatch
             for setting watchpoints on kernel address locations only, and
             avoid its use on user mode address spaces.

     dhwatch [addr][,size]
             Delete specified hardware watchpoint.

     kill sig pid
             Send signal sig to process pid.  The signal is acted on upon
             returning from the debugger.  This command can be used to kill a
             process causing resource contention in the case of a hung system.
             See signal(3) for a list of signals.  Note that the arguments are
             reversed relative to kill(2).

     step[/p][,count]
     s[/p][,count]
             Single step count times.  If the p modifier is specified, print
             each instruction at each step.  Otherwise, only print the last
             instruction.

             Warning: depending on machine type, it may not be possible to
             single-step through some low-level code paths or user space code.
             On machines with software-emulated single-stepping (e.g., pmax),
             stepping through code executed by interrupt handlers will
             probably do the wrong thing.

     continue[/c]
     c[/c]   Continue execution until a breakpoint or watchpoint.  If the c
             modifier is specified, count instructions while executing.  Some
             machines (e.g., pmax) also count loads and stores.

             Warning: when counting, the debugger is really silently single-
             stepping.  This means that single-stepping on low-level code may
             cause strange behavior.

     until[/p]
             Stop at the next call or return instruction.  If the p modifier
             is specified, print the call nesting depth and the cumulative
             instruction count at each call or return.  Otherwise, only print
             when the matching return is hit.

     next[/p]
     match[/p]
             Stop at the matching return instruction.  If the p modifier is
             specified, print the call nesting depth and the cumulative
             instruction count at each call or return.  Otherwise, only print
             when the matching return is hit.

     trace[/u] [pid | tid][,count]
     t[/u] [pid | tid][,count]
     where[/u] [pid | tid][,count]
     bt[/u] [pid | tid][,count]
             Stack trace.  The u option traces user space; if omitted, trace
             only traces kernel space.  The optional argument count is the
             number of frames to be traced.  If count is omitted, all frames
             are printed.

             Warning: User space stack trace is valid only if the machine
             dependent code supports it.

     search[/bhl] addr value [mask][,count]
             Search memory for value.  The optional count argument limits the
             search.

     reboot[/s] [seconds]
     reset[/s] [seconds]
             Hard reset the system.  If the optional argument seconds is
             given, the debugger will wait for this long, at most a week,
             before rebooting.  When the s modifier is given, the command will
             skip running any registered shutdown handlers and attempt the
             most basic reset.

     thread addr | tid
             Switch the debugger to the thread with ID tid, if the argument is
             a decimal number, or address addr, otherwise.

     watchdog [exp]
             Program the watchdog(4) timer to fire in 2^exp seconds.  If no
             argument is provided, the watchdog timer is disabled.

   SPECIALIZED HELPER COMMANDS
     findstack addr
             Prints the address of the thread whose kernel-mode stack contains
             addr, if any.

     show active trace
     acttrace
             Show a stack trace for every thread running on a CPU.

     show all procs[/a]
     ps[/a]  Display all process information.  The process information may not
             be shown if it is not supported in the machine, or the bottom of
             the stack of the target process is not in the main memory at that
             time.  The a modifier will print command line arguments for each
             process.

     show all trace
     alltrace
             Show a stack trace for every thread in the system.

     show all ttys
             Show all TTY's within the system.  Output is similar to pstat(8),
             but also includes the address of the TTY structure.

     show all vnets
             Show the same output as "show vnet" does, but lists all
             virtualized network stacks within the system.

     show allchains
             Show the same information like "show lockchain" does, but for
             every thread in the system.

     show alllocks
             Show all locks that are currently held.  This command is only
             available if witness(4) is included in the kernel.

     show allpcpu
             The same as "show pcpu", but for every CPU present in the system.

     show allrman
             Show information related with resource management, including
             interrupt request lines, DMA request lines, I/O ports, I/O memory
             addresses, and Resource IDs.

     show apic
             Dump data about APIC IDT vector mappings.

     show badstacks
             Walk the witness(4) graph and print any lock-order violations.
             This command is only available if witness(4) is included in the
             kernel.

     show breaks
             Show breakpoints set with the "break" command.

     show bio addr
             Show information about the bio structure struct bio present at
             addr.  See the sys/bio.h header file and g_bio(9) for more
             details on the exact meaning of the structure fields.

     show buffer addr
             Show information about the buf structure struct buf present at
             addr.  See the sys/buf.h header file for more details on the
             exact meaning of the structure fields.

     show callout addr
             Show information about the callout structure struct callout
             present at addr.

     show cdev [addr]
             Show the internal devfs state of the cdev structure located at
             addr.  If no argument is provided, show the list of all created
             cdevs, consisting of the devfs node name and the struct cdev
             address.

     show conifhk
             Lists hooks currently waiting for completion in
             run_interrupt_driven_config_hooks().

     show cpusets
             Print numbered root and assigned CPU affinity sets.  See
             cpuset(2) for more details.

     show cyrixreg
             Show registers specific to the Cyrix processor.

     show devmap
             Prints the contents of the static device mapping table.
             Currently only available on the ARM architecture.

     show domain addr
             Print protocol domain structure struct domain at address addr.
             See the sys/domain.h header file for more details on the exact
             meaning of the structure fields.

     show ffs [addr]
             Show brief information about ffs mount at the address addr, if
             argument is given.  Otherwise, provides the summary about each
             ffs mount.

     show file addr
             Show information about the file structure struct file present at
             address addr.

     show files
             Show information about every file structure in the system.

     show freepages
             Show the number of physical pages in each of the free lists.

     show geom [addr]
             If the addr argument is not given, displays the entire GEOM
             topology.  If addr is given, displays details about the given
             GEOM object (class, geom, provider or consumer).

     show idt
             Show IDT layout.  The first column specifies the IDT vector.  The
             second one is the name of the interrupt/trap handler.  Those
             functions are machine dependent.

     show igi_list addr
             Show information about the IGMP structure struct igmp_ifsoftc
             present at addr.

     show iosched addr
             Show information about the I/O scheduler struct cam_iosched_softc
             located at addr.

     show inodedeps [addr]
             Show brief information about each inodedep structure.  If addr is
             given, only inodedeps belonging to the fs located at the supplied
             address are shown.

     show inpcb addr
             Show information on IP Control Block struct in_pcb present at
             addr.

     show intr
             Dump information about interrupt handlers.

     show intrcnt
             Dump the interrupt statistics.

     show irqs
             Show interrupt lines and their respective kernel threads.

     show ktr[/avV]
             Print the contents of the ktr(4) trace buffer.  The v modifier
             will request fully verbose output, causing the file, line number,
             and timestamp to be printed for each trace entry.  The V modifier
             will request only the timestamps to be printed.  The a modifier
             will request that the output be unpaginated.

     show lapic
             Show information from the local APIC registers for this CPU.

     show lock addr
             Show lock structure.  The output format is as follows:

             class:
                    Class of the lock.  Possible types include mutex(9),
                    rmlock(9), rwlock(9), sx(9).

             name:  Name of the lock.

             flags:
                    Flags passed to the lock initialization function.  flags
                    values are lock class specific.

             state:
                    Current state of a lock.  state values are lock class
                    specific.

             owner:
                    Lock owner.

     show lockchain addr
             Show all threads a particular thread at address addr is waiting
             on based on non-spin locks.

     show lockedbufs
             Show the same information as "show buf", but for every locked
             struct buf object.

     show lockedvnods
             List all locked vnodes in the system.

     show locks
             Prints all locks that are currently acquired.  This command is
             only available if witness(4) is included in the kernel.

     show locktree

     show malloc[/i]
             Prints malloc(9) memory allocator statistics.  If the i modifier
             is specified, format output as machine-parseable comma-separated
             values ("CSV").  The output columns are as follows:

                   Type      Specifies a type of memory.  It is the same as a
                             description string used while defining the given
                             memory type with MALLOC_DECLARE(9).
                   InUse     Number of memory allocations of the given type,
                             for which free(9) has not been called yet.
                   MemUse    Total memory consumed by the given allocation
                             type.
                   Requests  Number of memory allocation requests for the
                             given memory type.

             The same information can be gathered in userspace with “vmstat
             -m”.

     show map[/f] addr
             Prints the VM map at addr.  If the f modifier is specified the
             complete map is printed.

     show msgbuf
             Print the system's message buffer.  It is the same output as in
             the “dmesg” case.  It is useful if you got a kernel panic,
             attached a serial cable to the machine and want to get the boot
             messages from before the system hang.

     show mount [addr]
             Displays details about the mount point located at addr.  If no
             addr is specified, displays short info about all currently
             mounted file systems.

     show object[/f] addr
             Prints the VM object at addr.  If the f option is specified the
             complete object is printed.

     show panic
             Print the panic message if set.

     show page
             Show statistics on VM pages.

     show pageq
             Show statistics on VM page queues.

     show pciregs
             Print PCI bus registers.  The same information can be gathered in
             userspace by running “pciconf -lv”.

     show pcpu
             Print current processor state.  The output format is as follows:

                   cpuid             Processor identifier.
                   curthread         Thread pointer, process identifier and
                                     the name of the process.
                   curpcb            Control block pointer.
                   fpcurthread       FPU thread pointer.
                   idlethread        Idle thread pointer.
                   APIC ID           CPU identifier coming from APIC.
                   currentldt        LDT pointer.
                   spin locks held   Names of spin locks held.

     show pgrpdump
             Dump process groups present within the system.

     show prison [addr]
             Show the prison structure located at addr.  If no addr argument
             is specified, show information about all prisons in the system.

     show proc [addr]
             Show information about the process structure located at address
             addr, or the current process if no argument is specified.

     show procvm [addr]
             Show process virtual memory layout for the process located at
             addr, or the current process if no argument is specified.

     show protosw addr
             Print protocol switch structure struct protosw at address addr.

     show registers[/u]
             Display the register set.  If the u modifier is specified, the
             register contents of the thread's previous trapframe are
             displayed instead.  Usually, this corresponds to the saved state
             from userspace.

     show rman addr
             Show resource manager object struct rman at address addr.
             Addresses of particular pointers can be gathered with "show
             allrman" command.

     show route addr
             Show route table result for destination addr.  At this time, INET
             and INET6 formatted addresses are supported.

     show routetable [af]
             Show full route table or tables.  If af is specified, show only
             routes for the given numeric address family.  If no argument is
             specified, dump the route table for all address families.

     show rtc
             Show real time clock value.  Useful for long debugging sessions.

     show sleepchain
             Deprecated.  Now an alias for show lockchain.

     show sleepq addr
     show sleepqueue addr
             Show the sleepqueue(9) structure located at addr.

     show sockbuf addr
             Show the socket buffer struct sockbuf located at addr.

     show socket addr
             Show the socket object struct socket located at addr.

     show sysregs
             Show system registers (e.g., cr0-4 on i386.)  Not present on some
             platforms.

     show tcpcb addr
             Print TCP control block struct tcpcb lying at address addr.  For
             exact interpretation of output, visit netinet/tcp.h header file.

     show thread [addr | tid]
             If no addr or tid is specified, show detailed information about
             current thread.  Otherwise, print information about the thread
             with ID tid or kernel address addr.  (If the argument is a
             decimal number, it is assumed to be a tid.)

     show threads
             Show all threads within the system.  Output format is as follows:

                   First column   Thread identifier (TID)
                   Second column  Thread structure address
                   Third column   Backtrace.

     show tty addr
             Display the contents of a TTY structure in a readable form.

     show turnstile addr
             Show turnstile struct turnstile structure at address addr.
             Turnstiles are structures used within the FreeBSD kernel to
             implement synchronization primitives which, while holding a
             specific type of lock, cannot sleep or context switch to another
             thread.  Currently, those are: mutex(9), rwlock(9), rmlock(9).

     show uma[/i]
             Show UMA allocator statistics.  If the i modifier is specified,
             format output as machine-parseable comma-separated values
             ("CSV").  The output contains the following columns:

                   Zone       Name of the UMA zone.  The same string that was
                              passed to uma_zcreate(9) as a first argument.
                   Size       Size of a given memory object (slab).
                   Used       Number of slabs being currently used.
                   Free       Number of free slabs within the UMA zone.
                   Requests   Number of allocations requests to the given
                              zone.
                   Total Mem  Total memory in use (either allocated or free)
                              by a zone, in bytes.
                   XFree      Number of free slabs within the UMA zone that
                              were freed on a different NUMA domain than
                              allocated.  (The count in the Free column is
                              inclusive of XFree.)

             The same information might be gathered in the userspace with the
             help of “vmstat -z”.

     show unpcb addr
             Shows UNIX domain socket private control block struct unpcb
             present at the address addr.

     show vmochk
             Prints, whether the internal VM objects are in a map somewhere
             and none have zero ref counts.

     show vmopag
             Walk the list of VM objects in the system, printing the indices
             and physical addresses of the VM pages belonging to each object.

     show vnet addr
             Prints virtualized network stack struct vnet structure present at
             the address addr.

     show vnode addr
             Prints vnode struct vnode structure lying at addr.  For the exact
             interpretation of the output, look at the sys/vnode.h header
             file.

     show vnodebufs addr
             Shows clean/dirty buffer lists of the vnode located at addr.

     show vpath addr
             Walk the namecache to lookup the pathname of the vnode located at
             addr.

     show watches
             Displays all watchpoints.  Shows watchpoints set with "watch"
             command.

     show witness
             Shows information about lock acquisition coming from the
             witness(4) subsystem.

   OFFLINE DEBUGGING COMMANDS
     dump    Initiate a kernel core dump to the device(s) configured by
             dumpon(8).

     gdb     Switches to remote GDB mode.  In remote GDB mode, another machine
             is required that runs gdb(1) (ports/devel/gdb) using the remote
             debug feature, with a connection to the serial console port on
             the target machine.

     netdump -s server [-g gateway -c client -i iface]
             Configure netdump(4) with the provided parameters, and
             immediately perform a netdump.

             There are some known limitations.  Principally, netdump(4) only
             supports IPv4 at this time.  The address arguments to the netdump
             command must be dotted decimal IPv4 addresses.  (Hostnames are
             not supported.)  At present, the command only works if the
             machine is in a panic state.  Finally, the ddb netdump command
             does not provide any way to configure compression or encryption.

     netgdb -s server [-g gateway -c client -i iface]
             Initiate a netgdb(4) session with the provided parameters.

             netgdb has identical limitations to netdump.

     capture on
     capture off
     capture reset
     capture status
             ddb supports a basic output capture facility, which can be used
             to retrieve the results of debugging commands from userspace
             using sysctl(3).  capture on enables output capture; capture off
             disables capture.  capture reset will clear the capture buffer
             and disable capture.  capture status will report current buffer
             use, buffer size, and disposition of output capture.

             Userspace processes may inspect and manage ddb capture state
             using sysctl(8):

             debug.ddb.capture.bufsize may be used to query or set the current
             capture buffer size.

             debug.ddb.capture.maxbufsize may be used to query the compile-
             time limit on the capture buffer size.

             debug.ddb.capture.bytes may be used to query the number of bytes
             of output currently in the capture buffer.

             debug.ddb.capture.data returns the contents of the buffer as a
             string to an appropriately privileged process.

             This facility is particularly useful in concert with the
             scripting and textdump(4) facilities, allowing scripted debugging
             output to be captured and committed to disk as part of a textdump
             for later analysis.  The contents of the capture buffer may also
             be inspected in a kernel core dump using kgdb(1)
             (ports/devel/gdb).

     run
     script
     scripts
     unscript
             Run, define, list, and delete scripts.  See the SCRIPTING section
             for more information on the scripting facility.

     textdump dump
     textdump set
     textdump status
     textdump unset
             Use the textdump dump command to immediately perform a textdump.
             More information may be found in textdump(4).  The textdump set
             command may be used to force the next kernel core dump to be a
             textdump rather than a traditional memory dump or minidump.
             textdump status reports whether a textdump has been scheduled.
             textdump unset cancels a request to perform a textdump as the
             next kernel core dump.

VARIABLES
     The debugger accesses registers and variables as $name.  Register names
     are as in the “show registers” command.  Some variables are suffixed with
     numbers, and may have some modifier following a colon immediately after
     the variable name.  For example, register variables can have a u modifier
     to indicate user register (e.g., “$eax:u”).

     Built-in variables currently supported are:

     radix         Input and output radix.
     maxoff        Addresses are printed as “symbol+offset” unless offset is
                   greater than maxoff.
     maxwidth      The width of the displayed line.
     lines         The number of lines.  It is used by the built-in pager.
                   Setting it to 0 disables paging.
     tabstops      Tab stop width.
     workxx        Work variable; xx can take values from 0 to 31.

EXPRESSIONS
     Most expression operators in C are supported except ‘~’, ‘^’, and unary
     ‘&’.  Special rules in ddb are:

     Identifiers      The name of a symbol is translated to the value of the
                      symbol, which is the address of the corresponding
                      object.  ‘.’ and ‘:’ can be used in the identifier.  If
                      supported by an object format dependent routine,
                      [filename:]func:lineno, [filename:]variable, and
                      [filename:]lineno can be accepted as a symbol.

     Numbers          Radix is determined by the first two letters: ‘0x’: hex,
                      ‘0o’: octal, ‘0t’: decimal; otherwise, follow current
                      radix.

     .                dot

     +                next

     ..               address of the start of the last line examined.  Unlike
                      dot or next, this is only changed by examine or write
                      command.

     '                last address explicitly specified.

     $variable        Translated to the value of the specified variable.  It
                      may be followed by a ‘:’ and modifiers as described
                      above.

     a#b              A binary operator which rounds up the left hand side to
                      the next multiple of right hand side.

     *expr            Indirection.  It may be followed by a ‘:’ and modifiers
                      as described above.

SCRIPTING
     ddb supports a basic scripting facility to allow automating tasks or
     responses to specific events.  Each script consists of a list of DDB
     commands to be executed sequentially, and is assigned a unique name.
     Certain script names have special meaning, and will be automatically run
     on various ddb events if scripts by those names have been defined.

     The script command may be used to define a script by name.  Scripts
     consist of a series of ddb commands separated with the ‘;’ character.
     For example:

           script kdb.enter.panic=bt; show pcpu
           script lockinfo=show alllocks; show lockedvnods

     The scripts command lists currently defined scripts.

     The run command execute a script by name.  For example:

           run lockinfo

     The unscript command may be used to delete a script by name.  For
     example:

           unscript kdb.enter.panic

     These functions may also be performed from userspace using the ddb(8)
     command.

     Certain scripts are run automatically, if defined, for specific ddb
     events.  The follow scripts are run when various events occur:

     kdb.enter.acpi       The kernel debugger was entered as a result of an
                          acpi(4) event.

     kdb.enter.bootflags  The kernel debugger was entered at boot as a result
                          of the debugger boot flag being set.

     kdb.enter.break      The kernel debugger was entered as a result of a
                          serial or console break.

     kdb.enter.cam        The kernel debugger was entered as a result of a
                          CAM(4) event.

     kdb.enter.mac        The kernel debugger was entered as a result of an
                          assertion failure in the mac_test(4) module of the
                          TrustedBSD MAC Framework.

     kdb.enter.netgraph   The kernel debugger was entered as a result of a
                          netgraph(4) event.

     kdb.enter.panic      panic(9) was called.

     kdb.enter.powerpc    The kernel debugger was entered as a result of an
                          unimplemented interrupt type on the powerpc
                          platform.

     kdb.enter.sysctl     The kernel debugger was entered as a result of the
                          debug.kdb.enter sysctl being set.

     kdb.enter.unionfs    The kernel debugger was entered as a result of an
                          assertion failure in the union file system.

     kdb.enter.unknown    The kernel debugger was entered, but no reason has
                          been set.

     kdb.enter.vfslock    The kernel debugger was entered as a result of a VFS
                          lock violation.

     kdb.enter.watchdog   The kernel debugger was entered as a result of a
                          watchdog firing.

     kdb.enter.witness    The kernel debugger was entered as a result of a
                          witness(4) violation.

     In the event that none of these scripts is found, ddb will attempt to
     execute a default script:

     kdb.enter.default    The kernel debugger was entered, but a script
                          exactly matching the reason for entering was not
                          defined.  This can be used as a catch-all to handle
                          cases not specifically of interest; for example,
                          kdb.enter.witness might be defined to have special
                          handling, and kdb.enter.default might be defined to
                          simply panic and reboot.

HINTS
     On machines with an ISA expansion bus, a simple NMI generation card can
     be constructed by connecting a push button between the A01 and B01
     (CHCHK# and GND) card fingers.  Momentarily shorting these two fingers
     together may cause the bridge chipset to generate an NMI, which causes
     the kernel to pass control to ddb.  Some bridge chipsets do not generate
     a NMI on CHCHK#, so your mileage may vary.  The NMI allows one to break
     into the debugger on a wedged machine to diagnose problems.  Other bus'
     bridge chipsets may be able to generate NMI using bus specific methods.
     There are many PCI and PCIe add-in cards which can generate NMI for
     debugging.  Modern server systems typically use IPMI to generate signals
     to enter the debugger.  The devel/ipmitool port can be used to send the
     chassis power diag command which delivers an NMI to the processor.
     Embedded systems often use JTAG for debugging, but rarely use it in
     combination with ddb.

     Serial consoles can break to the debugger by sending a BREAK condition on
     the serial line.  This requires a kernel built with options
     BREAK_TO_DEBUGGER is specified in the kernel.  Most terminal emulation
     programs can send a break sequence with a special key sequence or menu
     selection.  Sending the break can be difficult or even happen spuriously
     in some setups.  An alternative method is to build a kernel with options
     ALT_BREAK_TO_DEBUGGER then the sequence of CR TILDE CTRL-B enters the
     debugger; CR TILDE CTRL-P causes a panic; and CR TILDE CTRL-R causes an
     immediate reboot.  In all these sequences, CR represents Carriage Return
     and is usually sent by pressing the Enter or Return key.  TILDE is the
     ASCII tilde character (~).  CTRL-x is Control x, sent by pressing the
     Control key, then x, then releasing both.

     The break-to-debugger behavior can be enabled by setting sysctl(8)
     debug.kdb.break_to_debugger to 1.  The alt-break-to-debugger behavior can
     be enabled by setting sysctl(8) debug.kdb.alt_break_to_debugger to 1.
     The debugger can be entered by setting sysctl(8) debug.kdb.enter to 1.

     Output can be interrupted, paused, and resumed with the control
     characters CTRL-C, CTRL-S, and CTRL-Q.  Because these control characters
     are received as in-band data from the console, there is an input buffer,
     and once that buffer fills ddb must either stop responding to control
     characters or drop additional input while continuing to search for
     control characters.  This behavior is controlled by the tunable sysctl(8)
     debug.ddb.prioritize_control_input, which defaults to 1.  The input
     buffer size is 512 bytes.

FILES
     Header files mentioned in this manual page can be found below
     /usr/include directory.

     -   sys/buf.h
     -   sys/domain.h
     -   netinet/in_pcb.h
     -   sys/socket.h
     -   sys/vnode.h

SEE ALSO
     gdb(1) (ports/devel/gdb), kgdb(1) (ports/devel/gdb), acpi(4), CAM(4),
     gdb(4), mac_ddb(4), mac_test(4), netgraph(4), textdump(4), witness(4),
     ddb(8), sysctl(8), panic(9)

HISTORY
     The ddb debugger was developed for Mach, and ported to 386BSD-0.1.  This
     manual page translated from man(7) macros by Garrett Wollman.

     Robert N. M. Watson added support for ddb output capture, textdump(4) and
     scripting in FreeBSD 7.1.

macOS 26.5                     November 10, 2022                    macOS 26.5
